Fine-grained access control for API Gateway using Lambda Authorizer (#768)
aws-samples/aws-cdk-examples: csharp/apigateway-cognito-lambda-dynamodb/README.md

# Fine-grained access control for API Gateway using Lambda Authorizer

## <!--BEGIN STABILITY BANNER-->

![Stability: Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/stability-Stable-success.svg?style=for-the-badge)

> **This is a stable example. It should successfully build out of the box**
>
> This examples is built on Construct Libraries marked "Stable" and does not have any infrastructure
> prerequisites to build.

---

<!--END STABILITY BANNER-->

> This C# CDK pattern creates Amazon Cognito user pool, Amazon API Gateway, AWS Lambda auth function, Amazon DynamoDB table, and AWS Lambda backend function. Auth Lambda function verify JWT token received in request header returns access policy associated with token user group. Based on access policy, API GW decides to forward the request to backend Lambda function or return 401/403 http status.

Author: awesome suggestions. Updated readme file.

   ![CreateUser](CognitoUserCreate.png)

3. Add newly created user to user group - "read-only"
   ![AssignUserToUserGroup](AssignUserToGroup.png)

4. Create one more user and add it to user group - "read-update-add". Remember user email id and password, need it for testing

5. Access Cognito app client hosted UI. You can find Hosted UI url in CloudFormation output

6. Login to Hosted UI with first user which is assigned to "read-only" user group. Cognito Hosted UI may ask to enter new password if its first login attempt, please set new password if asked. After succesful login, UI will navigate user to localhost URL with access_token in the url

7. Get the access_token (not id_token) from the localhost url

8. Use Postman or curl command to invoke the API GW GET endpoint. Pass access_token as "Authorization" in request header. Make sure "Bearer " present at start of the token. You can get the API GW endpoint URL in CloudFormation output
   ![PostmanCall](PostmanCall.png)

9. Confirm API GW returned 200 Success response

10. Now invoke POST endpoint (same API GW endpoint URL with POST Http verb) with access_token of first user which is assigned to "read-only" user group.

> 11. Confirm API GW retuned 403 Forbidden response
> 
> 12. Login to Hosted UI with second user which is assigned to "read-update-add" user group and get the access_token (not id_token). Cognito Hosted UI may ask to enter new password if its first login attempt, please set new password if asked.
> 
> 13. Invoke GET endpoint with access token of second user
> 
> 14. Confirm API GW returned 200 Success response
> 
> 15. Invoke POST endpoint with access token of second user
> 
> 16. Confirm API GW returned 201 Success response
> 
> 17. Invoke GET or POST endpoint with invalid token
> 
> 18. Confirm API GW returned 401 Unauthorized response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11. Confirm that you are returned an HTTP 403 Unauthorized response.

12. Log into the Hosted UI as the second user you created following the steps previously described. 

13. Make a GET request to the API Gateway HTTP Endpoint as you did previously, this time using the second user's `access_token` for the bearer token.

14. Confirm that you are returned a 200 Success response

15. Make a POST request to the API HTTP Endpoint 

16. Confirm you are returned an HTTP 201 Created response

17. Try making a GET or POST request to the endpoint with invalid token

18. Observe that you're returned an HTTP 401 Unauthorized response
```
